h2. NSDate (Helper)

This is a category for the @NSDate@ class that provides some convenience methods for working with @NSDate@ objects and displaying formatted and relative strings.

More information can be found at my "initial blog post":http://www.zetetic.net/blog/2009/03/11/nsdate-helper/.

Anyone is welcome to fork and send pull requests, it's always appreciated.

h3. Usage

Two convenience methods make it easy for you to display some relative date information. @stringForDisplayFromDate@ gives you the kind of relative you see in the Notes listing on the iPhone:

  NSString *displayString = [NSDate stringForDisplayFromDate:date];
  
This produces the following kinds of output:
  
* '3:42 AM' - if the date is after midnight today
* 'Tuesday' - if the date is within the last seven days
* 'Mar 1' - if the date is within the current calendar year
* 'Mar 1, 2008' - else ;-)

  NSString *displayString = [NSDate stringForDisplayFromData:date prefixed:YES];
  
This produces the same as above, but prefixed with 'at' or 'on' depending on the appropriate English syntax.

Another set of methods provide days-ago information:

<pre><code>
  NSDate *date = [NSDate date];
  [date daysAgo]; // provides an NSComponent-based NSUInteger describing days ago.
  [date daysAgoAgainstMidnight]; // better version of daysAgo, works off midnight (hat-tip: "sburlot":http://github.com/sburlot)
  [date stringDaysAgo]; // 'Today', 'Yesterday', or 'N days ago'.
</code></pre>
  
Tired of creating and releasing date formatters? Missing things like @to_s(:db)@? Me, too. @NSDate (Helper)@ has some static methods to make going back and forth between strings and dates a little less painful, and particularly easier when working with database timestamps (a la SQLite):

<pre><code>
  NSDate *date = [NSDate dateFromString:@"2009-03-01 12:15:23"]; 
  NSString *dbDateString = [NSDate stringFromDate:date]; // returns '2009-03-01 12:15:23'
</code></pre>
  
Who needs NSDateFormatter?
  
  NSString *otherDateString = [NSDate stringFromDate:date withFormat:@"EEEE"]; // use any format you like

h3. Installation

To use it in your Cocoa project, import the header and implementation files, and then add the header to your project's <projectname>_prefix.pch file so that it's available across your project:
  
<pre><code>
#ifdef __OBJC__
    #import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
    #import <UIKit/UIKit.h>
    #import "NSDate+Helper.h"
#endif
</code></pre>


